BEIJING — The reappearance on Saturday of Xi Jinping, a top Chinese leader who had vanished from public view, removes one question mark facing the Communist Party, but a wave of protests against Japan is a sign that internal power struggles are far from over.
Related

A Leader in China Reappears in Public (September 15, 2012)

Connect With Us on Twitter
Follow @nytimesworld for international breaking news and headlines.
Twitter List: Reporters and Editors
Enlarge This Image
 
Xinhua/Reuters
Vice President Xi Jinping appeared in Beijing on Saturday after a short public absence.
On Saturday, the diplomatic tensions boiled over, with hundreds of demonstrators throwing rocks and eggs at the Japanese Embassy in Beijing, while smaller protests erupted in up to 40 other Chinese cities. Unconfirmed reports said some of the protests turned violent, with protesters said to have burned down a Toyota dealership.

Demonstrators were demanding that Japan give China control of a small group of islands known as the Diaoyu in China and the Senkaku in Japan.

Both countries claim them as part of their territory, but Japan exercises control over them.

Because any public gatherings are tightly controlled in China, it seemed likely that at least one faction in the government approved of Saturday’s protests. Protesters near the embassy in Beijing carried Chinese flags and pictures of the founding Communist leader Mao Zedong.

The police limited the number of protesters on the street outside the embassy; some people ate lunch on the roadside while they waited for their turn to march. Others waved banners with slogans about taking control of the islands or chanted, “Death to Japan.”

Some analysts see a relationship between the protests and the political tensions surrounding the disappearance of Mr. Xi, the vice president of China, who had been out of public view for two weeks before reappearing on Saturday.

Mr. Xi attended National Science Popularization Day on the campus of the China Agricultural University in Beijing, according to two photographs posted on the Web site of the state-run Xinhua news agency and a report on the evening news.

No explanation was given for his absence, which is unusual for Chinese leaders, whose activities are chronicled daily in the state-run news media. In the past two weeks, Mr. Xi canceled meetings with at least two foreign dignitaries, while government spokesmen deflected questions about him.

Beijing-based analysts said that Mr. Xi was nursing an ailment — a heart problem and a sore back were the two most widely discussed possibilities — but that he was also dealing with political challenges that forced him out of sight.

Those challenges include deep rifts in the party over personnel and policies. Mr. Xi’s ascension to president is to be announced at a party congress expected to be held in just weeks. But no date has been set for it, a sign, analysts say, that the party is divided over many critical issues.

The ratcheting up of tensions with Japan is partly a result of this rift. Japan’s actions have played a role in stoking Chinese anger; most recently, the Japanese government bought the islands from their private owner. But some analysts say that the bellicose response by China, including the decision to send six surveillance vessels to the waters around the islands, were intended to increase tensions.

One reason could be a desire to prevent Mr. Xi from taking complete control this autumn. A party scholar with family ties to top leaders, including Mr. Xi, said the departing president, Hu Jintao, is worried that his political base will be weakened under the new leadership team led by Mr. Xi.

This has led Mr. Hu, this scholar and other party insiders say, to try to keep control of the military. This would repeat a pattern started by Mr. Hu’s predecessor, Jiang Zemin, who gave up most of his titles in 2002 but retained control of the military for two more years before ceding it to Mr. Hu.

Some political insiders say Mr. Hu is escalating the disputes over several islands to make the case that he needs to stay on. State television has had nightly reports about China’s inalienable claim to the islands also claimed by Japan, Vietnam and the Philippines. A campaign to push the military to pledge its loyalty to the party has also been used to bolster support for his leadership. Some commentaries in military newspapers have called on officers to unify around the party led by Mr. Hu.

“Hu Jintao is not ready to yield power,” the scholar said. “This is being done to serve his politics.”

Some others, however, have a slightly different view. They say the power struggles have weakened civilian control, which has already slipped in recent years. This has allowed the military to push its agenda, including enforcing territorial claims.

“This has allowed the military and hard-liners to run foreign policy,” said a Beijing-based academic with ties to the leadership.

The son of a famous general, Mr. Xi is said to have close ties to the military. Less meritocratic than many other parts of Chinese society, the military’s upper ranks are dominated by people like Mr. Xi who come from well-connected backgrounds — so-called princelings.

“Xi can control them” when he takes over “because he’s a princeling, too,” said a Chinese newspaper editor who spoke anonymously because of the delicacy of the topic. “They are all offspring of revolutionaries.”

That made Mr. Xi’s reappearance a welcome development for some. In the photographs on Saturday, he looked healthy.

But Mr. Xi faces many other challenges. One is how to deal with the disgraced official Bo Xilai, who lost his positions after his wife was accused of murdering a British business associate. Mr. Bo has not been charged with wrongdoing but has disappeared from view, even though he remains popular among many party members. The party also faces economic challenges that will demand painful policy changes.

“If Xi is tired now, then how will he feel in two or three years from now?” asked an official in the party’s Organization Office. “Most leaders look sick and exhausted when they leave office, not when they take over.”

Jonathan Ansfield contributed reporting.
