SAN FRANCISCOÑApple Inc. AAPL +1.22% appeared to have sold out of its initial inventory of the iPhone 5 just an hour after it began accepting preorders Friday, suggesting strong consumer interest.

Enlarge Image

European Pressphoto Agency
An Apple executive displays the iPhone 5.

The Cupertino, Calif., company's website began accepting preorders shortly after midnight Pacific time. Within an hour, however, the company's website indicated that shipping times had slipped from an expected delivery on the device's launch date, Sept. 21. Those who preordered were told the iPhone 5 would be available to ship in two weeks.

Natalie Kerris, a spokeswoman for Apple, said the response so far from customers had been "incredible." "We've been completely blown away by the customer response," she said.

Streaming Updates


Plus, visit the Gadget Wars stream for the latest on the cutthroat action between Apple, Amazon, Google, Nokia and others.

The updated shipping times suggest strong sales for the device, which promises customers faster Web browsing, better gaming and crisper pictures. The display measures 4 inches diagonally, compared with the 3.5-inch screen Apple has used for its iPhones since the device launched in 2007.

The perceived demand for the iPhone 5 has helped to lift Apple's stock to another all-time high, this time at $696.98. The stock closed Friday up 1.2% at $691.28.

Apple Debuts New iPhone, iPod, iTunes

 
From San Francisco, Andy Jordan is at the scene of Apple's release of its new iPhone.

How Apple Cornered Cool
Conversely, the biggest U.S. wireless carriers took a hit as they offer heavy subsidies on the phone for contract customers and several analysts trimmed earnings projections. AT&T Inc. T -2.33% closed down 2.3% to $37.26, and Verizon Communications Inc. VZ -2.30% dropped 2.3% to $44.53.

While preorders on Apple's website provided only a short window for delivery on the launch date, the U.S. wireless carriers took until midday Friday to begin seeing delays. AT&T's website says customer's phones will ship in 14 to 21 business days, and Verizon shows Sept. 28 for delivery. AT&T declined to comment, while a Verizon spokeswoman said the company has "seen significant volumes."

Sprint Nextel Inc. S +1.15% showed a two-week wait for the 16-gigabyte model of the phone, but other versions could still be bought for Sept. 21 delivery. Sprint said projected delivery dates are based on "expected inventory for launch availability," but the company wouldn't comment on the size of its inventory or sales progress. Several carriers, including Sprint, experienced some slowness with their websites overnight as preordering started; however, the problems seem to have been solved.

The iPhone 5 is critical to Apple's continued success. Not only have the phones powered Apple to become the world's largest company by value, they have become the bedrock of the company's mobile-device strategy. Software in the iPad tablet computer is shared with the iPhone, largely intertwining the fate of both devices.

Apple is charging $199 for the cheapest iPhone 5 if customers sign up for a new two-year contract with their carriers. The company is also selling a version of its year-old iPhone 4S for $99. The iPhone 4, launched in 2010, is being offered free.

Smartphone Wars

Explore and compare features and specifications of smartphones, including the iPhone 5.

View Interactive

More photos and interactive graphics
Apple will sell the iPhone 5 in nine countries, including the U.S., on Sept. 21. Other countries will follow.

Apple said this is its most aggressive iPhone rollout, adding that the device will be available in 100 countries by the end of the year.

In the U.K., preorders are being taken by most of the biggest mobile operators, including EE's Orange and T-Mobile, as well as Vodafone Group VOD.LN -0.85% PLC and Hutchison Whampoa Ltd.'s 0013.HK +1.57% Three U.K.elefonica SA's O2 website in the U.K. will start taking preorders "shortly," a company spokesman said.

U.K. retailer Carphone Warehouse Group CPW.LN +5.38% PLC, which sells the iPhone 5 on all mobile networks in the U.K., has also started taking preorders. Prices on their website start from £45 ($73) a month on a 24-month contract.

"It has been very busy," an Apple call-center worker said, noting that U.K. customers who haven't so far ordered an iPhone 5 may now have to wait a few weeks before delivery.

In Germany, major carriers T-Mobile, Vodafone and O2 are also taking preorders. Prices with a subscription plan start at Û29 ($38) at O2. At the Apple store, prices start at Û679 without a network contract.

ÑThomas Gryta in New York, Lilly Vitorovich in London and Friedrich Geiger in Frankfurt also contributed to this article.
